Not you know if statements and comparison operators it's important to look at booleans a little closer
because there is one important thing about balance and also AND and OR logic which we will cover in
this video.
So let's go ahead and create a variable called H.
And let's just set that 35 and then if we check here age greater than equal 30 or greater or equal than
30 and H lower equal 39.
So we have this statement which contains of two checks or two comparisons.
So we have one condition.
The age has to be greater than or equal 30.
And at the same time it has to be less than or equal 39.
So only if that is the case we want to present something onto the console which is going to be this
person is in its 30s something like that.
So let's print that or let's execute that.
And you can see this person is in its 30s it's printed on the console and that is because the person
is 35 for the age of the person is 35.
And that's why this condition is true.
So 35 is greater than equal 30 and it is lower than equal 39.
So if we enter something like 40 in here as you can see it's not executed.
All right.
So you said that back to 35 and it's executed again or it is executed anyways but this code is not executed
if the condition here is not met.
Or those two conditions are not met.
And that's this.
And what so and means both have to be true or not just both but all conditions if they are connected
with an end each time.
All right so now let's check out or what's that change to 45.
And then if H is lower than 30 or less than 30 or the age is greater equal 40 only then we want to print
something onto the console saying this person is not in its 30s and I think here that's correct.
Now let's run again.
This person is not in its thirties is printed.
Because now it's 45.
So we have this other thing where we use or which means either or has to be true.
Only then this statement will be executed.
So which means that it doesn't have to be both of them.
So this condition is false.
As you can see only that condition is true.
But one of the two is true.
That's why the statement here is printed so we can simply check that like this.
Print age less than 30 and print Page Creator equal 40 foot print that we see it's false and true.
But as long as one of them is true this will be executed.
Or we also can do is we can store whether a statement is true or not inside of a variable and we've
seen that before but now let's check it out in a different version.
So above below 30 more on a score 30 is going to be the name of my variable and in there I want to store
H creator equal 30.
Now I can print that out and it's print above 30 onto our console and you can see it's true here.
Why is that.
Well that's because this statement here returns true and the return is stored within this variable.
That's why we get this true here.
And why is it true.
Well because age is 45 as you have seen here.
So if we set H in this and the line be above page 225 and we execute the code as you can see it's dated
as follows.
Now we can of course go ahead and create another variable or assign 25 to age even though we did that
here.
But I'm going to just do it in the cell as well.
And I'm going to say something like above 20 is going to be the name of the variable and it's going
to state something like age greater equal 20 and we're going to print above 20 onto the console and
as it concedes that's true.
Now you could of course argue if somebody is just 20 then he's not going to be above 20 but.
Well it depends on the point of view here I say.
So if this condition is true so if H is greater equal 20 I just want to print something on a console
if statement was executed.
So as you can see we can still use the same approach as before so I can check something greater equal
20 and then print something.
Now why do I show you that because we have seen that quite a lot already right.
Well there is something about if statements that you can do and that is to just tell them whether they
are true or false straight away.
So if true.
Print Hi there.
Simple as that.
As you can see Heidi is printed.
So you don't even have to have a comparison.
You can even say straight away it's true or it's false.
So if false and it's not printed.
Of course that doesn't make that much sense but in some cases you might want to use this approach.
So let's look at that a little closer.
So I'm just going to add some more lines so that I can write in the center of the screen so I'm going
to use print and just use True and true.
So guess what it's going to execute well it's going to say true.
Why is that.
Because both of them are true.
So the left hand side is true and the right hand side is true.
OK.
What if I have the situation where I have true and false.
Let's check that out.
As you can see I get false now print false and true.
What will that execute.
Well it will execute falls once again and then the last one print false and false and that one will
give me false as well.
So whenever you use and there is only one combination where it actually is returning true and that is
if both left and right of the end is true.
So both conditions left and right and in this case we're just using the true key word.
All right.
So that's with the end.
Now let's check it out for the OR or so just use print.
True or true that will return true of course because either word is true and if both are true then it's
double true.
But still it's only returning one true of course.
And then in the next line print true or false or will that return while it will return true as well
and print false or true that will return true as well so you can see there is only one combination where
it actually returns false.
And that is if false is the case for both sides so left and right or so to shake that out as you can
see now we get false.
So that's very important logic that you need to understand if you use or or.
And now let's look at an example.
Again let's say we have a variable called country and it's just going to have the county code like us.
United States of America and a variable called age.
And now we check something like Kountry equal equal us.
If that's still true that's the case.
And the H is greater equal 21 or if the country is not us and the age is created equal 18 because in
most countries you may do stuff that is only allowed 21 in the U.S. for example.
This person may drink alcohol.
So in the U.S. you're only allowed to drink alcohol at the age of 21 and higher.
And in other countries I'm not going to say in all countries but in most countries you're allowed to
drink alcohol at the age of 18 or in some countries.
Not that hard article like beer and wine and stuff like that is allowed to drink at what you're allowed
to drink at 16.
So in Germany for example you're allowed to drink beer and wine at the age of 16.
And yeah you may not drink and drive of course and you also may not drive at the age of 16 which is
the case in the US.
So it's pretty interesting how different countries handle those rules differently in the same way of
weapons so you may have a weapon before you may drink in the U.S. and Germany it's super difficult to
even get a weapon.
But it's super easy to get alcohol even if you're just 16.
So that's very interesting.
And that's just an example let's just print that out and a console and have an arrow somewhere says
counter's not defiant and it should be country.
All right.
So I wrote counter here.
Now let's check it out again.
Let's execute the code.
And as you can see it doesn't.
Executed.
Now let's add an else here and let's print something.
Actually we need the colon print.
This person may not drink alcohol.
That's good that.
And as you see this person may not drink alcohol is executed.
That's because the person is from the U.S. that say the person is 25 now.
And as you can see the person may drink alcohol.
Now let's say the person is from G-B from Great Britain and is 18 and as you can see this person may
drink alcohol just because he's from Great Britain and equal or older than 18.
All right so that was booleans and into or.
And we will use those quite a lot.
So make sure that that you have understood quite well and of course there will be exercises where I
can prove that and prove that to yourself.
Great.
So let's check out the sheet in the next video and afterwards you'll see of course and of course the
solution to that.
And afterwards we're going to look at the in operator.
So see you in the next video is.